Australian Crocodile Fun Facts:

1. The biggest reptile in the world
The saltwater crocodile is the biggest reptile in the world! Some can be over 5 meters long!

2. They can live in both salt and fresh water
Even though it’s called a “saltwater” crocodile, it can live in rivers and swamps too!

3. They are very good at hiding
Crocodiles can stay very still in the water for a long time, waiting for food to come close.

4. They have super strong jaws
A crocodile’s bite is very strong — stronger than a lion’s!

5. Crocodiles are like living dinosaurs
Crocodiles have been on Earth for more than 200 million years!

6. Don’t swim where crocodiles live!
In northern Australia, people don’t swim in rivers because crocodiles might be there!

7. Australians call saltwater crocodiles “salties”!


Australian Echidna Fun Facts:

1. They lay eggs, but they are mammals!
Echidnas are mammals that lay eggs — just like platypus!

2. They have long, sticky tongues
Echidnas use a long, sticky tongue to catch ants and termites.

3. They have sharp spines for protection
Echidnas have sharp spines on their back to keep them safe.

4. They live all around Australia
Echidnas can live almost anywhere in Australia — forests, deserts, even backyards!

5. Baby echidnas are called “puggles”!
A baby echidna is called a “puggle”.

6. They are very shy
Echidnas are shy and move slowly. They roll up if they are scared.


Australian Platypus Fun Facts:

1. They lay eggs, but they are mammals!
Platypuses are mammals that lay eggs — just like echidnas!

2. They have a duck bill and webbed feet
Platypuses have a bill like a duck and webbed feet for swimming.

3. They live only in Australia
You can only find platypuses in Australia!

4. Male platypuses have venom!
Male platypuses have a sharp spur on their back leg that can give venom!

5. They close their eyes, ears, and nose underwater
When swimming, platypuses close their eyes, ears, and nose. They use their bill to feel for food!

6. Baby platypuses drink milk from their mother’s skin!

7. Platypuses store food in their cheeks while swimming!


Australian Koala Fun Facts:

1. They are not bears!
Koalas are not bears. They are animals with a baby pouch!

2. They eat only eucalyptus leaves
Koalas eat only special tree leaves called eucalyptus, and they are very picky!

3. They sleep a lot
Koalas can sleep up to 20 hours a day!

4. Baby koalas are called “joeys”
A baby koala is called a “joey”.

5. They live only in Australia
You can only find koalas in Australia.

6. Koalas have two thumbs on each hand to help them climb trees!


Australian Kangaroo Fun Facts:

1. They can’t walk backward!
Kangaroos can’t walk backward!

2. They carry their babies in a pouch
Mother kangaroos carry their babies, called joeys, in a pouch.

3. They are strong jumpers
Kangaroos can jump over 3 meters high and 9 meters long!

4. They eat plants
Kangaroos eat only plants and grass. We call these animals herbivores.

5. They live in groups called “mobs”
Kangaroos live in groups called “mobs”.

6. The kangaroo and the emu are both on Australia’s coat of arms!


Australian Emu Fun Facts:

1. Emus can’t fly!
Emus are big birds, but they can’t fly.

2. They can run really fast
Emus can run very fast — up to 50 kilometres per hour!

3. The dad looks after the eggs
The father emu takes care of the eggs and babies!

4. They eat plants and insects
Emus eat plants, seeds, and small insects.

5. They are on Australia’s coat of arms
The emu and the kangaroo are both on Australia’s coat of arms.

6. Emus have soft feathers that feel like hair!


Australian Kookaburra Fun Facts:

1. They sound like they are laughing!
Kookaburras make a sound that sounds like they are laughing!

2. They live in trees in forests and parks
Kookaburras live in trees, often in forests or parks.

3. They eat meat!
Kookaburras eat meat, like insects, small snakes, and frogs.

4. They live with their family
Kookaburras live in families and help each other care for baby birds.

5. They are famous in Australia
The kookaburra is one of Australia’s most famous birds.

6. “Kookaburra” comes from an Aboriginal word that means “laughing sound.”


Australian Sea Turtle Fun Facts:

1. Sea turtles live in the ocean
Sea turtles spend almost all their life in the ocean.

2. They come to the beach to lay eggs
Mother turtles come to the beach to lay their eggs in the sand.

3. Baby turtles run to the sea
When baby turtles hatch, they run to the sea!

4. They can hold their breath for a long time
Sea turtles can stay underwater for many minutes without breathing.

5. They always find their way home
Sea turtles can find the same beach where they were born!

6. Some sea turtles can live for more than 80 years!


Australian Wombat Fun Facts:

1. Wombats live in burrows
Wombats dig big holes called burrows and live inside them.

2. They walk slowly but are very strong
Wombats walk slowly, but they are very strong and can run fast if scared!

3. They are marsupials too!
Wombats are marsupials — they have a pouch for their baby.

4. Their pouch opens backwards
A wombat’s pouch opens to the back, not the front!

5. Their poop is cube-shaped!
Wombats make cube-shaped poop!

6. They come out at night
Wombats are nocturnal — they come out at night to eat grass.

7. Wombats have very tough bottoms that help protect them from danger!